<div style="text-align: center">
   Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa
   <div style="font-size: 80%">
   Bachelor in Computer Science and Computer Engineering
   <br>Bachelor in Informatics, Networks and Telecommunications Engineering
   </div>
   Internet Programming/Introduction to Web Programing

   Winter Semester of 2022/2023 – **1st practical assignment**
</div>

---

# Delivery

This first practical assignment has 2 parts, and it should be **implemented and delivered individually** by each student. The delivery dates are the following:

- **Part1:** 10/10/2022-23h59.
- **Part2:** 23/10/2022-23h59.

## **Delivery method**

The delivery method is done in 2 steps:

- In Github Classroom, use [this invitation link](https://classroom.github.com/a/0vuKjn7f). Following this link, login with your github user account and select your student id to make the correspondence between them, so that a private Github repository is created. The assignment should be delivered in this repository, by creating a tag called `A1`. If you need to make some amend to the delivery, just create another tag named `A1.1`, `A1.2`, etc.
- In Moodle go to your corresponding class page, [LEIC31D](https://2223moodle.isel.pt/course/view.php?id=5884), [LEIC32D](https://2223moodle.isel.pt/course/view.php?id=5599), [LEIC31N](https://2223moodle.isel.pt/course/view.php?id=5598) and [LEIRT51D](https://2223moodle.isel.pt/course/view.php?id=6056), follow link to the corresponding assignment part. In the assignment page, paste the link to the delivery tag on Github, you created in the previous step.

## Part 1 - JavaScript functions

Implement the following JavaScript functions and create tests that confirm the described behaviour:

1. Implement the function `validateProperty(obj, propValidator)`, that returns `true` if it confirms the existence and validity of a given property in `obj`, or `false` otherwise. The validity specification is provided in `propValidator` argument.

   **Example**

   ```javascript
   const validator = {name : "p1" , validators: [s => typeof s == 'string' && s.length > 2, s => s[0]=="a"]  }
   const obj1 = { p1 : "abc" }
   const obj2 = { p2 : 123 }
   const obj3 = { p1 : "a" , p2 : 123 }

   validateProperty(obj1, validator) //true
   validateProperty(obj2, validator) //false
   validateProperty(obj3, validator) //false
   ```

   **Arguments**

   - `obj`: an object to validate a property
   - `propValidator`: an object that validates a property on `obj`, having the following properties:
     - `name` - the name of the property to validate
     - `validators` - an array of predicate functions that must be called with the property value. If any returns `false` the property is invalid.

   **Conditions**

   - Do not create any unnecessary functions e.g. helpers.

---

2. Implement the function `validateProperties(obj, propValidators)` that returns an array with the name of the properties whose validation failed. If an empty array is returned, the validation was successful.

   **Example**

   ```javascript
   const validators = [
      {
      name : "p1" , validators: [s => typeof s == 'string' && s.length > 2, s => s[0]=="a"] 
      },
      {
      name : "p2" , validators: [s => Number.isInteger(s)] 
      }
   ]
   const obj1 = { p1 : "a" }
   const obj2 = { p1 : 123  }
   const obj3 = { p1 : "abc" , p2 : 123 }

   validateProperties(obj1, validators) // ["p1", "p2"]
   validateProperties(obj2, validators) // ["p1", "p2"]
   validateProperties(obj3, validators) // []
   ```

   **Arguments**

   - `obj`: an object to validate the properties
  
   - `propValidators`: an array of property validators, as defined in the previous exercise to validate the properties in `obj`

   **Conditions**

      - Do not use any for/while loops or `Array#forEach`.
      - Do not create any unnecessary functions e.g. helpers.
  
   **Hints**

   - The function must call `validateProperty` for each validator

---

3. Add a `validateProperties` method to `Object` type. This method implementation should call the `validateProperties` function implemented in the previous exercise.  

**Example**

```javascript
   const validators = [
      {
      name : "p1" , validators: [s => typeof s == 'string' && s.length > 2, s => s[0]=="a"] 
      },
      {
      name : "p2" , validators: [s => Number.isInteger(s)] 
      }
   ]
   const obj1 = { p1 : "a" }
   const obj2 = { p1 : 123  }
   const obj3 = { p1 : "abc" , p2 : 123 }

   obj1.validateProperties(validators) // ["p1", "p2"]
   obj2.validateProperties(validators) // ["p1", "p2"]
   obj3.validateProperties(validators) // []
   ```

---

4. Add the `associateWith(transformation)` method to the Array type.
This function returns an `Object` in which the elements values of the original Array are properties names, and the corresponding values values are produced from them by the given `transformation` function. If two elements are equal, only the last one remains in the object.
**Example:**

   ```javascript
   let numbers = ["one", "two", "three", "four"]
   console.log(numbers.associateWith( str => str.length ))

   // { one: 3, two: 3, three: 5, four: 4}
   ```

---

1. Implement `checkUsersValid(goodUsers)`function that return a function that takes a list of valid users in `goodUsers`, and  returns `true` if all of the supplied users exist in the original list of users, or `false` otherwise.

   You only need to check that the user ids match.
   **Example:**

   ```javascript
   var goodUsers = [
      { id: 1 },
      { id: 2 },
      { id: 3 }
   ]

   // `checkUsersValid` is the function you'll define
   var testAllValid = checkUsersValid(goodUsers)

   testAllValid([
      { id: 2 },
      { id: 1 }
   ])
   // => true

   testAllValid([
      { id: 2 },
      { id: 4 },
      { id: 1 }
   ])
   // => false
   
   ```
  
   **Arguments**

   - `goodUsers`: a list of valid users
  
---

6. Override a specified method of an object with new functionality while still maintaining all of the old behaviour.

   Create a `Spy` function that returns an object that keeps track of how many times a function is called.

   **Example**

   ```javascript
   var spy = Spy(console, 'error')

   console.error('calling console.error')
   console.error('calling console.error')
   console.error('calling console.error')

   console.log(spy.count) // 3
   ```

   **Arguments**

   - `target`: an object containing the method `method`
   - `method`: a string with the name of the method on `target` to spy on.

   **Conditions**

   - Do not use any for/while loops or `Array#forEach`.
   - Do not create any unnecessary functions e.g. helpers.

   **Hint**

     - Functions have context, input and output. Make sure you consider the context, input to *and output from* the function you are spying on.

# Part 2 - Node application

## Foreword

This part requires that your code makes HTTP requests to the [IMDb API](https://imdb-api.com).
To access this API, each student must request the API key that identifies the student application's requests. That key must be included in the URL of each HTTP request. The description of the necessary steps to create the token are described [here at the bottom](https://imdb-api.com). Note that this is a free API, and therefore it is expected that you comply with the [Rate Limits and Good Citizenship rules](https://imdb-api.com/pricing).

## Application requirements

This application reads movie ids from a json file, with the following format:

```json
{
   "movie-ids" : [
       "tt0111161",
       "tt0068646",
       "tt0468569",
   ]
}

```

  and produces another JSON file containing each movie id, title, duration, and the total duration of those movies, as shown in following example:

```json
{
    "total-duration": 469,
    "movies": [
        {
            "id": "tt0111161",
            "title": "The Shawshank Redemption",
            "duration": 142
        },
        {
            "id": "tt0068646",
            "title": "The Godfather",
            "duration": 175
        },
        {
            "id": "tt0468569",
            "title": "Inception",
            "duration": 152
        }
    ]
}

```

Implement two versions of the application:

1. Using Promises explicitly
2. Using the async/await style

REMARK: The students should consider the limitations of this free API, namely the maximum number of requestas per day (100).

## Part 3 (Optional) - Git & Github Fundamentals

[This part 3](https://classroom.github.com/a/3uHeW6hW) is an optional assignment, whose goal is to explain the basics of Git and Github. Although optional, the students are strongly encouraged to complete this assignment, so that the fundamentals concepts and practices of one of the most used tools in the software development industry nowadays can be understood and properly used.
